What is root cause for memory Error ?
what is Xms256m and Xmx2048m. what changes are made in java 8 for memory utilization?
What is memory leckage, how to avoid it ?
what is Java Memory Model?
what is String Pool?

1. What is root cause for memory Error ?
a. OutOfMemoryError might be thrown when one of the following circumstances occurs:
   > JVM has run out of native memory.
   > Java heap is out of memory.
   > PermGen or Metaspace has run out of memory.
   > JVM spent too much time trying to collect the garbage.
 
2.what is Xms256m-Xmx2048m. what changes are made in java 8 for memory utilization?
a.The flag Xmx specifies the maximum memory allocation pool for a Java Virtual Machine (JVM), while Xms specifies the initial memory allocation pool.
   This means that your JVM will be started with Xms amount of memory and will be able to use a maximum of Xmx amount of memory.
   Xms256m -Xmx2048m:This means, JVM will startup with 256 MB of memory and will allow the process to use up to 2048 MB of memory.
   
   In Java 8:
   > Permanent Generation (PermGen) space has been removed.
   > JVM is now using native memory for the representation of class metadata and is called Metaspace; similar to the Oracle JRockit and IBM JVM's.
   > Garbage collection of the dead classes and classloaders is triggered once the class metadata usage reaches the “MaxMetaspaceSize” is added.
   > Some miscellaneous data has been moved to the Java heap space. This means you may observe an increase of the Java heap space following a future JDK 8 upgrade.
   
3.What is memory leckage, how to avoid it ?
a.Memory leak occurs when programmers create a memory in heap and forget to delete it.
  Memory leaks are particularly serious issues for programs like daemons and servers which by definition never terminate.
   To avoid memory leaks, 
   > memory allocated on heap should always be freed when no longer needed.
   > Use Heap Memory Effectively.

4.what is Java Memory Model?
a.A memory model is best thought of as the architecture that determines how different parts of memory (i.e., stack and heap) interact. 
  The Java Virtual Machine (JVM) divides the memory into two logical units:
    1> Thread stack
    2> Heap
     >The thread stack is the part of the memory which stores the data specific to a thread. Every thread has its own thread stack.
     >There is only one shared heap for the whole Java application; it stores the objects created and their member variables (both primitives and references).
   
5.what is String Pool?
a.String pool is nothing but a storage area in Java heap where string literals stores. It isalso known as String Intern Pool or String Constant Pool. 
It is just like object allocation. By default, it is empty and privately maintained by the Java String class.
    
 
 
 
